COMPANIES REGULATIONS (ELECTRONIC FILING) RULES 2015
PART 1
GENERAL INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
The Registrar hereby makes the following Rules in exercise of the powers conferred on it by
section 942 of the Companies Regulations 2015 to impose requirements as to the form,
authentication and manner of delivery of documents required or authorised to be delivered to
the Registrar:
1.

2.

Commencement, citation and interpretation
(1)

These Rules may be cited as the Companies Regulations (Electronic Filing)
Rules 2015.

(2)

These Rules shall come into force on the date of their publication.

(3)

In these Rules, the “Companies Regulations” means the Companies
Regulations 2015.

(4)

Defined terms used in these Rules and their meanings are contained in
Schedule 1.

(5)

Unless the context otherwise requires:

(a)

references to sections are to sections of the Companies Regulations;

(b)

a reference to a ‟Rule” or ‟Rules” is a reference to these rules and a reference
to a numbered rule, part or schedule is to the Rule, Part or Schedule of these
Rules; and

(c)

words in the singular include the plural and vice versa and a reference to a
gender includes a reference to all genders.

(6)

Material or information referred to in these Rules as being specified,
prescribed or described as accessible or available on or through the website is
included in and forms part of these Rules.

(7)

A reference in these Rules to material or information that is “from time to
time” specified, described, accessible or available on or through the website is
a reference to material or information that does not form part of these Rules.

Application of these Rules
(1)

These Rules apply to any document delivered to the Registrar in electronic
form pursuant to the Companies Regulations.

(2)

These Rules apply only to documents delivered in respect of companies or,
proposed companies, which are collectively referred to in these Rules as
“companies (or other bodies)”.

PART 2
ELECTRONIC FILING
Chapter 1
General provisions
4.

5.

Application of Part
(1)

This Part applies to documents delivered to the Registrar using Electronic
Filing and shall be construed accordingly.

(2)

The documents that may be delivered to the Registrar using Electronic Filing
are specified from time to time on the website.

Using Electronic Filing
(1)

To deliver a document using Electronic Filing the presenter must:

(a)

have access to the internet;

(b)

have an email account;

(c)

be a registered user of Electronic Filing (information about the registration
process is available from time to time on the website of the Registrar);

(d)

subject to Rule 5(4), be a registered user for the company (or other body) to
which the document relates (unless it is an incorporation package).

(2)

Subject to Rule 5(3), in delivering a document using Electronic Filing the
presenter on behalf of the company (or other body) consents to any
communication from the Registrar relating to or arising out of the delivery of
that document being sent only in electronic form.

(3)

A company incorporated using Electronic Filing may request a paper copy of
its certificate of incorporation from the Registrar.

(4)

A presenter who delivers a charge document either as an interested person or
for and on behalf of an interested person must provide such supporting
documentation as the Registrar may require.

(5)

The Registrar’s requirements on how presenters register to use Electronic
Filing are specified from time to time on the website.

(6)

An incorporation package may only be delivered by a presenter who has
provided such supporting documentation as the Registrar may require
evidencing their status as an incorporation agent.

2

Chapter 2
Form of document
General requirements
6.

7.

8.

9.

Document to be in the form of a template
(1)

Except for articles of association delivered with a company incorporation
package (see Rule 7) accounts (see Rule 8), or copy instruments (see Rule 10
(2)), each document must be in the form of the template supplied for that
purpose by the Registrar on the website.

(2)

The presenter must complete every data input field in a template unless the
field is a non-mandatory one or there is otherwise no legal requirement or
authority to provide the information requested.

(3)

Where a document template is used, the document template must be
completed on-line while the presenter is logged onto Electronic Filing.

The company incorporation package
(1)

This Rule applies to a company incorporation package.

(2)

The articles of association are viewed by selecting the “articles of association”
link in the incorporation template.

(3)

Model articles can be viewed by selecting the “model articles” link in the
incorporation template.

(4)

Articles of association delivered with a company incorporation package (if
any) must be authenticated by the initial members on delivery to the Registrar
in accordance with Rule 12.

Accounts
(1)

This Rule applies to company accounts.

(2)

Company accounts may only be delivered using Electronic Filing if they are
provided in a compatible PDF file.

Notice of change of name
A notice of change of name by resolution may only be delivered using Electronic
Filing if:
(a)

it is specified where indicated in the relevant template whether the change of
name is conditional on the occurrence of an event as contemplated by section
66(2);

(b)

it is accompanied by a copy of the resolution for a change of name in the form
of a specified template; and

3

(c)
10.

the resolution passed by the company is in the form of the resolution set out in
that template.

Charge documents
(1)

A charge document may only be delivered using Electronic Filing if it is
accompanied by a copy instrument and the certificate referred to in section
784(3).

(2)

The copy instrument must be in the form of a compatible PDF file uploaded to
the website with the charge document.

(3)

The certificate must be in the form of the template supplied for that purpose by
the Registrar.

(4)

If the presenter elects to give the certificate under 784(3) using one of the
prepopulated statements supplied by the Registrar by way of example in the
relevant data input field, the presenter must satisfy himself as to the veracity
and adequacy of the prepopulated statement and amend it as may be necessary
before delivering the certificate to the Registrar.
Chapter 3
Authentication

11.

12.

Personal authentication
(1)

The requirements of this Rule are in addition to any other requirement
imposed by this Chapter.

(2)

A document required by these Rules to be authenticated must, in the case of a
company (or other body), be authenticated in the manner stipulated on the
website by a presenter acting on the Company’s behalf.

The company incorporation package
(1)

The statement of compliance delivered under section 6(1) must be
authenticated by each initial member to the articles of association by each
initial member or by the initial members’ agent, in each case in the manner
stipulated on the website.

(2)

In authenticating the statement of compliance each initial member or the agent
(as the case may be) instructs the Registrar to tag electronically the statement
of compliance by way of authentication on his behalf.

(3)

The application for registration document delivered under section 6(1) must be
authenticated by the person to be appointed in the manner stipulated on the
website.

(4)

Authentication of articles of association for the purpose of section 6(4) shall
be in the manner stipulated on the website.

4

13.

Authentication of documents other than accounts and charge documents
(1)

This Rule applies to any document delivered in respect of a company (or other
body) except for company incorporation packages (see Rule 12) accounts (see
Rule 14) and charge documents (see Rule 15).

(2)

The person who authenticates the document must belong to, or act under the
specific authority of a person who belongs to, a category or class of person
specified on the website or relevant template as being permitted to
authenticate the document on behalf of the company (or other body).

(3)

The presenter may only use Electronic Filing to deliver a document in respect
of a company (or other body) if he supplies the Registrar with the registered
number and any other identifying code as may be specified by the Registrar
from time to time of that company (or other body) every time he accesses the
Electronic Filing facility on behalf of that company (or other body).

(4)

In selecting a template in which to deliver a document in respect of the
company (or other body) the presenter instructs the Registrar to:

(a)

prepopulate the relevant data input fields with:
(i)

the registered number of the company (or other body); and

(ii)

the name of the company (or other body) associated on the
Registrar’s records with that registered number,

by way of authentication on the presenter’s behalf; and

14.

(b)

tag electronically the document by way of authentication on the presenter’s
behalf such that the electronic record of the document is indelibly associated
with the presenter and the company (or other body).

(5)

A notification of a director or secretary’s appointment must be authenticated
by the person being appointed in the manner stipulated in the relevant
template.

Authentication of accounts
(1)

This Rule applies to accounts.

(2)

The presenter of a company’s accounts must act under the specific authority of
that company’s directors in delivering accounts to the Registrar.

(3)

The presenter must by way of authentication provide the Registrar with the
registered number and any other identifying code as may be specified by the
Registrar from time to time of that company (or other body) of the company in
respect of which accounts are to be delivered.

(4)

The presenter instructs the Registrar to tag electronically the accounts by way
of authentication on the presenter’s behalf such that the electronic record of

5

the document is indelibly associated with the presenter and the company (or
other body).
15.

Authentication of charge documents
(1)

This Rule applies to charge documents.

(2)

A person who authenticates a charge document for and on behalf of the
company (or other body) subject to the charge must belong to, or act under the
specific authority of a person who belongs to, a category or class of person
specified on the website as being permitted to authenticate the charge
document.

(3)

The presenter of a charge document to be delivered for and on behalf of the
company (or other body) subject to the charge must provide such supporting
documentation as the Registrar may require prior to submitting the relevant
charge document.

(4)

A presenter who authenticates a charge document as an interested person or
for and on behalf of an interested person must provide such supporting
documentation as the Registrar may require prior to submitting the relevant
charge document.

(5)

The certificate referred to in section 784(3)is authenticated by:

(a)

the provision of an appropriate confirmation by the person giving the
certificate in the manner stipulated on the website; and

(b)

the provision the name of the person giving the certificate.

(6)

The presenter instructs the Registrar to tag electronically the charge document
by way of authentication on the presenter’s behalf with such that the electronic
record of the document is indelibly associated with the presenter and the
company (or other body).
Chapter 4
Delivery and receipt

16.

Manner of delivery
(1)

This Rule applies to all documents to be delivered through Electronic Filing.

(2)

Before he can deliver a document to the Registrar the presenter must be online and logged into Electronic Filing.

(3)

Save for when the document is a copy instrument a document or template is
delivered when the presenter irrevocably submits it for filing on the website.

(4)

A copy instrument is delivered by delivering the charge document to which it
is electronically linked.

6

Time of receipt
17.

Receipt
(1)

A fee-bearing document delivered using Electronic Filing and in respect of
which the fee is tendered by credit card or debit card is received when the fee
payment is completed.

(2)

Save as provided in Rule 17(1) a document delivered using Electronic Filing is
received when irrevocably submitted for filing.

7

SCHEDULE 1
DEFINED TERMS USED IN THIS VOLUME OF THE RULES AND THEIR
MEANINGS (RULE 1(4))
“accounts” means a copy of such of a company’s annual accounts and reports and/or
abbreviated accounts as are required to be or authorised to be delivered to the Registrar under
the Companies Regulations and which are not excluded accounts;
“annual accounts and reports” has the meaning set out in section 444(2);
“charge” means a charge eligible for registration under Part 24 of the Companies
Regulations;
“charge document” means a document in electronic form delivered or to be delivered
pursuant to an obligation arising under Part 24 of the Companies Regulations;
“company” has the meaning given to it in section 1;
“company incorporation package” means an incorporation package in respect of a company;
“compatible PDF file” means a file in portable document format no greater than
10 megabytes in size;
“copy instrument” means a copy of the instrument by which a charge is created or evidenced;
“data input field” means:
(a)

a box or similarly delineated area visible in human readable form on a website
the purpose of which is to capture information; together with

(b)

the descriptor text associated with the box the purpose of which is to signify
the nature of the information required to be input into the box;

“document” means information required to be or authorised to be delivered to the Registrar
under the Companies Regulations;
“Electronic Filing” means delivering a document to the Registrar, through the Registrar’s
online systems as detailed in these Rules;
“excluded accounts” means revised accounts delivered under section 428 or section 430 of
the Companies Regulations;
“fee-bearing document” means:
(a)

a document for which a fee is payable in respect of its receipt; or

(b)

where a fee is payable in respect of the receipt of more than one document as
part of a single transaction, each of those documents;

“incorporation template” means the template to be used to deliver a company incorporation
package in electronic form to the Registrar using Electronic Filing;

8

“interested person” means any person interested in a charge other than the company (or other
body) against which the charge is or is to be registered;
“presenter” means an individual person using Electronic Filing to deliver a document to the
Registrar;
“resolution” means a special resolution for a change of name;
“template” means a specified set of data input boxes as found on the Registrar’s website; and
“website” means the website maintained by the Registrar at www.adgm.com.

9

SCHEDULE 2
DOCUMENTS THAT MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE REGISTRAR USING
ELECTRONIC FILING
1. Form

2. Name of form

3
Legislative
provision
authorizing or requiring delivery

INC-01

Reservation of company name

Section 47

INC-02

Application to register a company

Section 6

AF-AA01

Filing of annual accounts

Section 415

AR-AR01

Annual Return

Section 778

EDF-N01

Notice of change of name by special
resolution
Notice of change of name by conditional
resolution
Notice confirming satisfaction of the
conditional resolution for change of
name
Notice of change of name by means
provided for in the articles
Notice of amendment of articles

Section 66(1)

Notice of existence of entrenched
provisions of the articles and restriction
on the amendment of articles
Notice of removal of restriction on the
company’s articles
Notice of change of constitution by
order of court or other authority
Notice of change of registered office
address
Notice of Single Alternative Inspection
Location (SAIL)
Change of location of the company
records to the single alternative
inspection location (SAIL)
Change of location of the company
records to the registered office
Appointment and Cessation of Directors
and Secretary
Change of details of director and
secretary
Change of accounting reference date

Section 21(1)

EDF-N02
EDF-N03

EDF-N04
EDF-C01
EDF-C02

EDF-C03
EDF-C05
EDF-RO01
EDF-CR01
EDF-CR02

EDF-CR03
EDF-DS01
EDF-DS02
EDF-A01

10

Section 66(2)
Section 66(3)

Section 67
Section 24

Section 21(2)
Section 31
Section 75
Section 996
Section 996

Section 996
Sections 157 and 293
Section 157 and 293
Section 381

1. Form

2. Name of form

EDF-A03

Notice of resolution removing auditor Section 481
from office
Notice of allotment of shares
Section 514

EDF-SC01
EDF-SC02
EDF-SC03
EDF-SC04

3
Legislative
provision
authorizing or requiring delivery

Notice of consolidation, sub-division, Sections 569 and 628
redemption of shares
Return of purchase of own shares
Section 647

EDF-SC05

Notice of sale or transfer of treasury Section 669
shares
Notice of cancellation of treasury shares Section 648

EDF-SC06

Notice of cancellation of shares

Section 671

EDF-SC07

Notice of cancellation of shares held by
or for a public company
Notice of name or other designation of
class of shares
Return of allotment by an unlimited
company allotting a new class of shares
Notice of particulars of variation of
rights attached to shares
Notice of new class of members

Section 603

Notice of particulars of variation of class
rights
Notice of name or other designation of
class of members
Notice of application to court for
cancellation of the special resolution
approving a redemption or purchase of
shares out of capital
Statement of Capital

Section 581

Application for trading certificate for a
public company
Application by a private company for reregistration as a public company
Application by a public company for reregistration as a private limited company
Notice of application to the court for
cancellation of resolution for reregistration

Section 700

EDF-SC08
EDF-SC09
EDF-SC10
EDF-SC11
EDF-SC12
EDF-SC13
EDF-SC14

EDF-SC15
EDF-TC01
EDF-RR01
EDF-RR02
EDF-RR03

EDF-RR04

Section 577
Section 515
Section 578
Section 579

Section 580
Section 664

N/A

Section 78
Section 84
Section 83

Application by a private limited Section 87
company for re-registration as an
unlimited company

11

1. Form

2. Name of form

3
Legislative
provision
authorizing or requiring delivery

EDF-RR05

Application by an unlimited company
for re-registration as a private limited
company
Application by a public company for reregistration as a private unlimited
company
Application by a public company for reregistration as a private limited company
following a court order reducing capital
Application by a public company for reregistration as a private company
following a cancellation of shares
Application by a restricted scope
company for re-registration as a nonrestricted scope company
Form of assent for re-registration of
public company as private and unlimited
Form of assent for re-registration of
private limited company as unlimited
Replacement of document not meeting
requirements for proper delivery
Application for rectification by the
Registrar of Companies
Notice of an objection to a request for
the Registrar of Companies to rectify the
Register
Correction of a director’s date of birth

Section 90

EDF-RR06

EDF-RR07

EDF-RR08

EDF-RR09

EDFRRA01
EDFRRA02
EDF-RP01
EDF-RP02
EDF-RP04

EDF-RP05
EDF-RT01
EDF-SD01
EDF-SD02

Section 94

Section 592

Section 604

Section 96

Section 94(2)
Section 87(2)
Section 950
Section 970
Section 970

Section 970

Application
for
administrative Section 889
restoration to the Court
Striking off application by a company
Section 867
Withdrawal of striking off application Section 874
by company

12

